-(screaming)
-(theme music playing)
-* Bad boys
whatcha want,
whatcha want *
* Whatcha gonna do *
* When the Sheriff John Brown
come for you? *
-Stop! Now! Stop!
-Heads up!
-* Bad boys, bad boys *
-* Whatcha gonna do *
-I smoked some marijuana,
I'm a marijuana smoker!
-Crawl out!
-* Bad boys, bad boys *
* Whatcha gonna do *
-Hands up! Hands up!
Hold it! Hold it!
-Announcer:
"Cops" is filmed on location
with the men and women
of law enforcement.
All suspects are innocent
until proven guilty
in a court of law.
-I've been out here in Lehigh
for almost two years now.
I'm on the East District
SET Team.
I'm a huge fan of going
after warrants,
you know, the investigative
background of where
these people live.
I find that very satisfying
when you're able to, you know,
work that all the way through.
Okay, so we received
some information that a person
that we're looking for,
a wanted subject who has
several felony warrants out,
is in the area.
We're here with several
other deputies.
Um, we're gonna see
what's goin' on.
-(radio chatter)
-Woman:
He came to my house
without anything.
-Where's he at?
Right here, right here,
right here!
-(sirens blaring)
-I see him, I see him!
Hey, right there,
he just cut right!
-(sirens continue)
-Go back!
I saw him run through this yard!
-(radio chatter)
-Crossed the canal?
Hey, give us an updated location
of where you're at.
Where'd he run?
(breathing heavily)
SET 5 to K-9.
Hey, Birch, right here!
-(radio chatter)
-Get in the house, sir!
-Stand by, county.
Okay, so, suspect
took off on foot.
We got several deputies
in pursuit, on foot,
we're tryin' to just locate
where they're at right now.
County, we're, uh, off of Davis.
We got K-9 on the ground,
we're about to track--
(breathing heavily)
-Dispatcher: Next unit,
take Coolidge and Oregon.
Next unit, go
to Jefferson and Oregon.
-He went down here!
-Go to your left!
-Right here?
-Yes, sir.
-Okay.
-(radio chatter)
-Mark this thing right here.
-Okay.
-(radio chatter)
-County, K-9's
on Stewart Lane.
Bein' advised he ran
through the backyard here.
All right, so we have witnesses
pointing us, telling us
direction of travel.
Uh, we're here with K-9.
-(radio chatter)
-Uh, Deputy Benora,
and his K-9 partner, Eli.
See if we can get
a good solid track
that we can follow.
-(radio chatter)
-Yes! Tall, long hair!
I hear yelling
inside this house!
The one behind the residence
at Stewart Lane.
-Man on radio: Thank you,
please control the perimeter
for me, please?
-I'll check it.
-Man 2 on radio:
Ten-four.
-(radio chatter)
-Get on the ground!
Get on the ground!
-Hands up! Hands up! Hands up!
-Get outta the trash can!
Crawl out!
-Get your dog!
-Crawl out!
-Get your dog! I'm out!
-I'm out, I'm out!
-Stay on the ground!
(screaming)
-Turn over!
Roll over on your stomach!
Get on the ground!
Put your hands out
to your side!
-Ow! My arm!
-Stop movin'! Don't move!
You understand?
-You (bleep) my arm.
-Put your hands together, man.
-My arm, I-- I can't move it!
-Relax, relax!
Why were you
in the trash can, bro?
-What do you think?
Dude, my arm's broken.
-I'll get the EMS for you here.
-No, man.
-Get up!
-Let go of my (bleep).
-Get up, now!
Let's go!
-Dude, my arm.
-We're gonna take care of it,
we're gonna call EMS.
-It's broken.
-Why were you runnin'?
-Why were you running, man?
-You guys were tryin'
to get me on some (bleep)
I didn't do.
-Tony, can we get EMS
to our location?
-My arm.
My arm!
-Reference a dog bite
on the arm.
-More than that.
-(radio chatter)
-Ten-four. One outstanding,
we got him, 10-12.
-Get in the car.
-Owwww!
I can't-- Can I lean back?
My arm, bro!
-I understand that.
All right, so right now
we found him in the garbage can,
we're just gonna
do an article search.
He's known
to have firearms
and stuff like that,
so we're just gonna
check it out, make sure
there's nothin' left
in the grass
for anyone to find.
Huh? Okay.
What is it?
-A pill bottle with--
-Dope in it? That's weed?
All right, so right here
is this little pill bottle,
or gold bottle--
-Sittin' right there
on top of it.
-All right.
-This is right
where we found him.
Um, we'll search that.
We got some weed in there.
You can see the baggie,
there's some inside the bag
and there's actually
some content
in the pill bottle.
Also, we have this lighter,
his wallet... pretty sure.
Picture of his girlfriend.
Hey, Alec, can you talk to me
for a second?
-I'm listenin', yeah.
-Okay.
Do you wanna tell me
about what happened tonight?
You wanna tell me
why you were running,
why were you hiding?
-Because I have
a (bleep) life to live, man,
and I'm not tryin'
to sit in jail.
So I (bleep) ran.
-All right. All right.
What-- What did
you think was gonna happen
if you got caught, man?
-I was gonna (bleep)
sit in jail because I'm
on diversion,
and I thought you guys
were gonna hold me
for 90 (bleep) days.
-And my birthday's March 22nd,
I'm turnin' 21,
-I know.
-you only turn 21
once in your life.
-I know, man.
-That's why. That's why
I was runnin'.
-Okay. All right.
Do you think
it was a good idea?
Do you think you probably
would've got in a little bit
less trouble if you just
stood in the middle
of the road and said,
"Guys, I give up,
you know?
It is what it is.
Take me for what you got."
-I'm not a quitter, officer.
-All right, man,
I understand.
-Clearly.
-All right.
What is this?
-That is my personal stash
of marijuana.
-Okay. All right.
It's not legal yet, man.
-Close enough.
-It's gettin' there.
It's get-- "Close enough"?
No, it doesn't work
like that, man.
-Can I see what you got
in my wallet?
-Yeah. Here's what I got.
-And he took all the fifties.
-Who took 'em?
-I could point you out
to him in a lineup.
-There's three ones in there.
-That's fine.
-There's another twenty
still in there.
-That's fine.
-That girl--
The picture in there,
that's your girlfriend, right?
-She beautiful, ain't she?
-Yeah, she is. I talked
to her earlier tonight.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight,
nine, 10, 11, 12.
-I been savin' that
(bleep) for two goddamn months.
-Okay, so you see we didn't
take your money, man,
all right?
-Right. What are we doin'?
Can I get my arm
handled up?
-Yeah. Let me pull you out,
we'll fix your cuffs real quick.
-(bleep) hurts, man.
-I understand, man.
Okay, here's what you're
gettin' charged with, Alec.
You're gonna get charged
with a warrant that we have
already, for you resisting us,
running the other day.
You're gonna get charged
for an additional warrant
that came out,
was a failure to appear
for something.
And you're also
gonna get charged--
-For the traffic?
-Yeah. Then you're also
gonna get charged again today
for running from us today.
-That's all?
-Yes, sir.
-I'm gonna fix your cuffs, okay?
-Slowly.
-In Grand Prairie, we--
we like to be responsibly
aggressive and with that,
I mean, traffic stops
are the key to everything.
You know, as an entire shift,
we really try to be aggressive
on-- on traffic stops.
You know, they lead into--
to bigger arrests.
Um, and that's how
you find narcotics,
that's how you find guns.
Um, that's how you get
the-- the people that are wanted
off the street.
All right, so we just
ran a tag on this
black Suburban
It shown it had
an unconfirmed insurance,
meaning the insurance
on the vehicle is out.
We're gonna conduct
a traffic stop on the vehicle.
-(radio chatter)
-How you doin' today, sir?
-What's up?
-Do you have your driver's
license and proof of insurance
for your vehicle?
-Can I ask
what I'm being stopped for?
-Yes, your insurance
is shown to be ineligible
on your status.
-Ineligible?
-Yeah, meaning you have
no insurance.
-(indistinct woman's voice)
-Oh, that's my girlfriend.
-Okay.
-Um-mm.
-Woman: A traffic stop.
-Yeah, you need to go back
to your car.
-I think I left my ID
in the house.
-23-77,
I have a second vehicle
that pulled over
and is yellin' at us.
-That's my girlfriend.
-Okay, is there anything
illegal in this vehicle?
-No, sir.
-Okay, is there a reason
that she'd be up on us all mad
that you're gettin' pulled over?
-Oh, she probably wanna
know why.
Hey, calm down!
-All right, man.
What I'm gonna have you do
is just hang out here a minute.
I see you have, like,
shake residue from marijuana
in your lap, man.
Is there any marijuana
in the car? Listen,
dude, marijuana
can be a citation
if you're honest with me.
I don't care about it, man.
If you got a little bit of bud,
I can write you a ticket for it
and let you go home.
If you lie to me and I find it,
I don't care how much it is,
I'll take you to jail on it.
-I got a little stash.
-Okay, what is it?
Like a-- a gram?
-It's like a blunt.
-Okay. Go ahead and take it out
and hand it to me.
Okay. Just that, right?
-Yeah.
-Okay. All right, man.
What I'm gonna have you do,
is, uh-- I just gotta make sure
there's no other marijuana
in the vehicle, okay?
If that's all the marijuana
you got, I'll write you
a citation for it, okay?
So I'm gonna have you
step out of the vehicle,
keep your hands
where I can see 'em.
You have any weapons on you?
Knife, needle--
Don't reach for anything.
-No, I ain't got
no weapons on me.
-Okay, you don't have a knife,
needle, gun, nothin' like that,
right? On you.
Okay. Keep your hands
where I can see 'em,
step out of the vehicle,
you understand?
Turn and face the vehicle.
Hands on top
of your head.
And then, for your safety
and my safety, I'm gonna
place you in handcuffs, okay?
You're not under arrest
at this time, just simply
gonna be placed in handcuffs.
That way, you're safe
and I'm safe, cool?
-Yeah, I got it.
-Especially with her
runnin' up on me like that,
and how you looked, like,
you looked really concerned
about when I asked you
if there was a gun
in this car.
Is there a gun in the car?
-Yeah, there's a gun.
-Okay. Is it stolen
or is it yours?
-No, it ain't no stolen gun.
-Okay.
Where is it at?
-It's under my seat.
-Under your seat? Okay.
-I mean I only got that
'cause I got shot
a couple years ago, man.
-Is there anything else
in this car I need
to know about?
-I go to school,
go to school,
I go to school.
-Where at?
-Mountain View College.
-Okay.
-I go to school
after work.
-You're gonna come back
over here, and you're gonna
sit down.
-I'll sit you
in the grass, okay?
-All right.
-Sit down.
-Woman: What's going on?
-Man, what?
Baby, what you doin'?
-A second vehicle
behind us pulled up,
and started yellin' at me,
while we were conducting
this traffic stop,
so additional officers
are investigating with her.
Springfield XD, fully loaded,
round in the chamber,
two twenty-three,
copy at gun for stolen?
-You shouldn't have a gun.
You can't have a gun and also
have marijuana.
Did you buy it at a store
or did you buy it off somebody?
-I bought it
off the street, but...
-How do you know
it's not stolen?
-I mean, I looked at the law.
They said that don't
really matter, do it?
-Right, you can buy a gun
from somebody else.
But if you didn't buy it
from a store-- you told us
it wasn't stolen,
and you just bought it,
but how do you know--
-Hey, that's what I'm sayin'.
-But how do you know
it's not stolen?
-Well, I ain't steal it.
-How do you know somebody
didn't steal it and...
sell it to you?
And now you're gonna
be caught with it?
-Well, they said--
Well, I don't know. The person
I bought it from, he said
he ain't steal it,
you know what I'm sayin'?
-You don't know the person
you bought it from?
-He had a case--
-Second gun.
Second gun.
You're under arrest.
Unlawful carry
of a weapon, you have
two guns in there,
pills, other narcotics.
We're gonna get you
wrapped up there, bud.
-That ain't mine, though.
Why y'all gotta put that on me?
-Stand there.
Spread your feet.
There you go.
How much cash you got on you?
-Man, that's the (indistinct).
-I didn't ask that.
Just how much.
I gotta document it.
-Probably a lot. I don't know.
-A lot.
-That's not mine.
-How long you been
slingin' dope?
-That's a school check, D.
-A school check, huh?
-I don't sling dope.
-What's all the-- What are
the narcotics that are in there?
You don't know?
-That ain't my bag.
-It's in the backpack?
Not your backpack?
-See, that's what I'm sayin'.
He just asked me.
Those people in the cowboy boots
were messing with my car, man.
-Does she have any weapons
in the vehicle?
-She's got a pistol magazine.
-Okay.
-Um, I'm not sure
what kinda pistol it was,
but there was
a loaded magazine.
-Is that a 9mm-- I have
two different pistols.
-Uh, it's either a nine
or a 380, I think it's a nine.
I haven't looked that close,
but then, uh,
this was right here
on the back seat.
At one of our robberies
last week,
-Yep.
-Didn't they wear a mask
like that?
-Mask. And the way she's actin',
that she just stopped behind me,
and she came runnin' up
on us and started yellin'
"Why are you stoppin' him?"
-She-- She ran up on me
when I pulled up, too,
she hopped out of the car, and--
-She's clearly
the distractionary method
for him.
-She just kept sayin'
"You stopped him for no reason,
and I was behind him,
so I know he didn't
do nothin' wrong."
-Yeah.
-And she doesn't smoke dope,
but she was sittin' on that.
-Huh. Ice.
Probable cause search
of the vehicle, came across
this backpack.
Had another gun in it,
and it looks like it has
some homemade pills.
That's some kinda
homemade narcotic.
Probably gonna
be crack cocaine, man.
-Yeah.
-And look at that,
another magazine for the gun
that was underneath his seat.
All this is connecting him
to selling of-- of narcotics.
This is the female
that pulled up behind me
at the traffic stop
and started yelling at me.
All right, ma'am,
why'd you pull up
behind me
and start yellin'?
-Because they pullin'
my boyfriend over
for no (bleep) reason.
-Okay. So what does that
give you the right
to hop out
and start yellin' at us?
-Yeah, because I don't
like cops! Cops always
killin' black people!
-Okay.
-You're always killin' us.
-All right.
-And he is a black man
that got pulled over
for no (bleep) reason.
-Obviously, he's
a drug dealer.
-He's not no drug dealer!
-That's why you hopped out
to yell at us.
-He's not no drug dealer.
-Yeah.
He's a college student
that's on the A--
nope, he's a college student
that's on the Dean's list,
that goes
to Mountain View College.
-Just carryin' guns,
weed, and crack cocaine,
too, huh?
-Crack cocaine?
-Yeah. Okay.
-He ain't carryin'
none of that (bleep).
-She goin' to jail
for possession of marijuana.
He's goin' to jail
for possession
of a controlled substance.
It's kind of a first,
having the second subject
pull up on me,
and basically give us
a reason to arrest her.
So we got a return
on our subject
we just arrested,
and he's shown
to be wanted out of, uh,
Fort Worth for robbery.
And that-- that links
to our two guns found
in the vehicle,
as well as the--
the mask found
in the vehicle behind us.
And he's considered
armed and dangerous.
-I remember when I was a kid,
my grandfather used to tell me
all these great stories
about the things he did
as a New York City
police officer.
And in an added extra,
I was named after him.
So when I had the opportunity
to go into law enforcement,
I took that opportunity,
went to the academy,
and, uh, and I came here
to Pasco, and been lovin' it
ever since.
So we're gettin' dispatched out
to a call.
It's comin' out
as a domestic battery
in progress.
Uh, it appears that a young man
and his mom's boyfriend
were involved in an altercation
which turned physical.
We have a report
that one of them is injured.
Uh, so we're gonna see
what's goin' on.
-What's goin' on, buddy?
-So, I get home from work...
-Rick, you wanna come over?
-...Rick and my mom
are arguing, right? As usual.
-Who's Rick to you?
-Rick, the guy that attacked me.
-Okay. Who's he to you?
-Nothing, just Mom's boyfriend.
-Mom's boyfriend.
-Yep.
-Just stay over there
right now, sir, I'll be there
in a minute.
-All right, so I get home...
he likes to think that,
you know, I'm 21,
I'm still living with my mom.
He has a problem with that.
He's like, "Oh, mama this,
suck on her titty, get off
her titty, blah blah blah."
I'm like, "Dude." Anyway,
so I'm like, "What is so wrong
with a mother
and son relationship?"
And he's like,
"Get your (bleep) ass--"
I'm like, "All right, dude,
I know, I see you're
a little drunk." He's like,
"I'm not drunk,"
gets up out of his chair,
grabs me-- grabs me--
-Step back a little.
Let me look.
-Grabs me...
-Okay.
-...punches me right here.
It's not that red,
I kinda-- I saw it comin'.
And I just push him off.
He turns around,
falls like this on his face.
He's got a little blood
right here.
And now I'm like,
"Dude, what are you thinking?
What are you thinking?"
Like, "What are you doin' man?"
Like, "This hasn't-- like, that
should not have happened
just now."
-Okay. Do you have ID on you
by any chance?
-I can go get it.
-Yeah. If you do that,
can you have your mom
step out for me,
so I can talk to her?
-Yes.
-How you doin'?
Can I talk to you for a minute?
-Sure.
-Can, uh, can we step over here
real quick?
-Sure.
-You wanna just have a seat
right there, sir?
I'll be right back.
-Over here, ma'am.
-That's my car.
-Okay. Just go over here.
All right.
Can you, uh, tell me
what's goin' on here tonight?
-Oh... see, we're splitting up,
Rick and I, and we so--
we sold the house
and everything,
and I just got an apartment.
-Mm-hm.
-And the reason I'm moving
is because my son--
because he's like, old school.
My son just turned 21,
and I raised him myself,
his whole life.
-Okay.
-And he's not ready
to branch out, so I said
I'm gonna go and move
with Sam, and get
our own apartment,
you know and everything's good.
We're closing on March 17th.
But he's always had this thing
about my son bein' a baby.
And Rick does
medication and drinks, and gets
a little silly sometimes,
and I went into my son's room,
and as I walked in there,
Rick started going,
"Ooh, Mommy, boo boo,
titty, boo boo," you know,
and all this stuff, you know.
Like he does
when he's been drinking.
-Was Sam instigatin' it
or was Rick?
-Rick did.
-Rick was instigatin' it?
-Absolutely.
-Okay.
-He-- He said somethin' to Sam
probably, you know,
and Sam goes, "You're drunk,"
and I believe he is.
-Okay.
-I really do.
-Okay. Can you give me
a written statement
about what happened?
-Sure.
-Okay.
-I'm gonna go talk
to Rick real quick.
-Absolutely.
-Richard... can I speak to you
real quick?
Hi. I'm Cpl. Endricks, and I'm
conducting an investigation
about what happened.
All right, so, uh, I spoke
to Sam, and is it
your girlfriend?
-Yes, sir.
-Okay. How long you guys
been together for?
-About three years.
-And you live together?
-Yes, sir.
-Is-- Is Sam your child?
-No, it's her-- it's--
that's hers.
-Okay.
Tell me what happened.
-Well, like I told the officer
there, I'm just sittin'
in my easy chair,
my TV was kinda loud.
He got right in my face.
He said I was drunk
and all kinds of (bleep),
so I just jumped up like that...
-Mm-hm.
-...and I went at him--
-No, back up, back up,
you don't have to get
too close to me.
-No, I won't. I'm just sayin'.
-All right.
-And then, he-- he whapped me.
-Where did he
hit you at?
-Right here.
-That's where he hit you?
-Yeah.
-Get a light out.
-I mean, I didn't do it.
-Okay, it's kinda weird
because, it doesn't look
like a punch mark
on your forehead.
Is that from fallin'
on the ground?
-I don't know, it--
it happened quick.
-Okay, I conducted
my investigation that took
everyone's statements,
and what everyone said,
and I also took
the physical evidence,
which is the injury
that you have.
There's an injury
on Sam himself, okay?
Based on my investigation,
I have determined that you
are the primary aggressor
in a domestic battery situation
or offense, so I'm gonna ask you
to just stand up for me,
and turn around
and put your hands
behind your back.
-Okay.
-Let go of your hands.
You don't touch your hands.
There you go.
All right, you got anything
on you I should know about?
-Uh, an inhaler.
-Is that it?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
Okay. So, just to explain
to you,
um, Richard's being
placed under arrest
for domestic battery.
All right?
He'll be going to Pasco County
Detention Center.
I'm gonna give you
a domestic violence
booklet. There's resources
in there that you
can look at.
And if you need
to get an injunction,
it'll explain how to do that.
Do you understand
what's goin' on?
-I do.
We're moving this weekend.
I mean, it's like,
kinda ironic, you know,
but he's always
had this thing about my son,
and I don't know why.
You know?
He's a good kid.
-Mm-hm.
So, you got up
outta the chair?
-After a while, I just got tired
of him yellin' at me,
right in my face,
so I just got up.
-Mm-hm.
-And he probably thought
I was gonna do somethin',
and struck me back and hit me.
-He struck you back?
Okay. Well, see,
that's what I'm basin' it
upon is just,
in the investigation,
when I say you're
primary aggressor.
Based on what
you're tellin' me, you got up...
-All I did was get up.
-...but they're claiming
that you actually
did hit him.
-Well... I lost my balance.
-And he's got physical
injuries, too.
-He does?
-Yes. All right?
-Yeah.
-All right, let's get you
over to the car.
-I got balance problems.
-All right, I got you.
-(grunts)
-Let me give you
his stuff, too.
-Need a bag where you're goin'.
All right, just give me
a second, all right?
-I think a combination
of the medication
and the alcohol
is what did it for him.
-Yeah.
-And he just got physical
tonight, so...
he'll spend the night
in jail, hopefully sober up
a little bit,
and things'll
work out later.
-132 and Bush,
I've got him at gunpoint.
-Dispatcher:
Okay, gunpoint, 132 and Bush.
Cover is code three.
-(overlapping
police radio chatter)
-Dispatcher:
Okay, we'll still send
a code three.
-(theme music playing)